feat(ai): bring support for function calling via tools and tools_choice params (#3886)
scaleway/docs-content: ai-data/generative-apis/how-to/use-function-calling.mdx

---

> meta:

Reviewer: I'm not sure this document should be a how to, since how to are usually about using core product features via the Scaleway console. Would it be more suited to being a tutorial, API/CLI doc or reference content? @bene2k1 
https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/guidelines/#page-types

Reviewer 2: Agreed, but I think we can make an exception for this specific product.

  title: How to use function calling
  description: Learn how to implement function calling capabilities using Scaleway's Chat Completions API service.
content:
  h1: How to use function calling
  paragraph: Learn how to enhance AI interactions by integrating external tools and functions using Scaleway's Chat Completions API service.
tags: chat-completions-api
dates:
  validation: 2024-09-24
  posted: 2024-09-24
---

Scaleway's Chat Completions API supports function calling as introduced by OpenAI. 

## What is function calling?

> Function calling allows a language model (LLM) to interact with external tools or APIs, executing specific tasks based on user requests. The LLM identifies the appropriate function, extracts needed parameters, and returns the results as structured data, typically in JSON format. While errors can occur, custom parsers or tools like LlamaIndex and LangChain can help ensure valid results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Function calling allows a large language model (LLM) to interact with external tools or APIs, executing specific tasks based on user requests. The LLM identifies the appropriate function, extracts the required parameters, and returns the results as structured data, typically in JSON format. While errors can occur, custom parsers or tools like LlamaIndex and LangChain can help ensure valid results.
```

> Function calling allows a large language model (LLM) to interact with external tools or APIs, executing specific tasks based on user requests. The LLM identifies the appropriate function, extracts the required parameters, and returns the results as structured data, typically in JSON format. While errors can occur, custom parsers or tools like LlamaIndex and LangChain can help ensure valid results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Function calling allows a large language model (LLM) to interact with external tools or APIs, executing specific tasks based on user requests. The LLM identifies the appropriate function, extracts the required parameters, and returns the tool call to be done as structured data, typically in JSON format. While errors can occur, custom parsers or tools like LlamaIndex and LangChain can help ensure valid results.
```

<Macro id="requirements" />

- Access to Generative APIs.
- [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- A valid [API key](/identity-and-access-management/iam/how-to/create-api-keys/) for API authentication
- Python 3.7+ installed on your system

## Supported models

* llama-3.1-8b-instruct
* llama-3.1-70b-instruct

> * mistral-nemo-instruct-2407

Author: mistral-7b not in the genapi list, that's why it's not listed here
